Cleanup the generator boilerplate in favor of the recommended add-on driven approach (#5297)
plone/volto: docs/source/recipes/developing-a-project.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Developing a Volto project"
    "property=og:description": "Developing a Volto project"
    "property=og:title": "AppExtras component"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, app extra component"
---

(frontend-developing-a-project-label)=

# Developing a project

When you start developing a Plone project, it is recommended that you use Plone's cookiecutter boilerplate generator.
See {ref}`install-packages-1-label` for more information.

The generator will output the project folder structure.
It is organized in three folders named `frontend`, `backend`, and `devops`, each of which corresponds to its primary use.
It also contains the convenience `Makefile` commands to perform all the usual actions while developing.

## Add-on first approach

Developing for Plone's frontend means to add code to a Volto project.
The frontend files of the project are created in the `frontend` folder.
The generator also creates a default add-on in the `frontend/src/addons` folder.
The project is already configured to use this add-on.
Add your code and customizations to this add-on, and Volto will load them on start up or a restart.

> This add-on is configured as a theme add-on, so you are able to customize the look and feel of your site as well.

Reviewer: Can you also add `developing-a-project` to `recipes/index.md` in its toctree? I want to see this render as a Preview, to make sure links actually work.

````suggestion
This add-on is configured as a theme add-on, so you are able to customize the look and feel of your site as well.

```{seealso}
For more information about how to develop a Volto project as an add-on, see {doc}`training:voltoaddons/index`.
```
````

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Developing a Volto project"
    "property=og:description": "Developing a Volto project"
    "property=og:title": "AppExtras component"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, app extra component"
---

(frontend-developing-a-project-label)=

# Developing a project

When you start developing a Plone project, it is recommended that you use Plone's cookiecutter boilerplate generator.

> See {ref}`install-packages-1-label` for more information.

Reviewer: This syntax is actually more correct because the Volto docs itself does not have an internal reference to Plone 6 docs until it gets included as a submodule. This syntax uses Intersphinx.

```suggestion
See {doc}`plone:install/install-from-packages` for more information.
```
